Welcome to Cloud Native Compass,
a podcast to help you navigate the vast
landscape of the cloud native ecosystem.
We're your hosts. I'm David Flanagan, a technology
magpie that can't stop playing with new shiny
things. I'm Laura Santa Maria, a forever learner
who is constantly breaking production.
Alright. This episode of Cloud Native Compass is
all about AI.
So David decided to input a request into
ChatGPT
for a sonnet about Kubernetes.
David, why don't you start us out? What
the chat GPT say?
In digital realms where servers and sway, a
symphony of nodes and rhythmic dance,
there lies a master orchestrate and play Kubernetes,
the captain of advance.
Its containers,
like actors on a stage, hold microcosms of
code's vibrant art. With Docker's grace, they come
alive, engage.
A ballet where technology takes part.
Scaling with grace like stars and boundless skies,
replicas bloom whether at its will.
Resilient adheres the failure's cry,
yet presses on each challenge to fulfill.
Oh, Kubernetes,
conductor of the cloud, you orchestrate our dreams
forever proud.
I can't believe I can shred that.
So,
we have a guest on. So JJ, can
you tell us who you are and what
you do and
how
it all works, the whole thing, all of
it? Yeah.
Hi. JJ Asgar.
I'm a developer advocate for IBM now,
And that means a lot. I wear a
lot of hats. That's what it boils down
to.
I kind of engage in different organizations and
different spaces and try to represent developers.
And they're they're kind of
their persona, I think, is the project management
term. I'm trying to learn the vernacular. What
can I say?
And
right now, I'm focusing on a product called
Watson X, which is an AI platform
that's built off of open source. And I
feel like your audience would be interested in
hearing a little bit about that space.
Yeah. Yeah. Kind of an interesting topic to
really bring up. Now I know that there's
the Linux Foundation's AI and Data Foundation,
and then there's obviously the CNCF, which is
another suborganization
for the Linux Foundation.
So
is Watson AI part of, like, the AID
one? Is it the cloud native one?
Because I wanna get, like, dig all the
way down into this landscape. Let's let's go
for it. So Yeah. Well, first of all,
I gotta be because I I am an
IBMer, and I have to have I have
to get the branding Yeah.
It's watsonx.ai
is the official name of the AI platform
for watsonx.ai.
We also have a couple other products coming
down that do other portions that are required
for a real AI platform to work.
I don't think I'm allowed to publicly say
those words quite yet. I don't actually know.
But the one that your community
in general would be focusing on most likely
is watsonx.ai.
Now that one
so when you kinda tie that up to
the foundations and the organizations that our industry
uses, like
LF AI and things like that,
What we have done as IBM is
kinda stepped into the LF AI to help
build the ecosystem
for
enterprise grade level
AI an AI platform that allows enterprise to
be comfortable with using AI.
I'm gonna just go into a quick little
tirade about why because you're probably like, JJ,
why wouldn't any
enterprise be happy with this? Right? Like Yeah.
Tell tell us a bit about why enterprises
maybe don't like AI.
That that's an interesting question.
Yeah. Yeah. So so there's this whole world
right now of people being like, AI is
gonna take our jobs. Right?
You know what it is. Right? Everyone
knows this. Well, we can make fun of
it, but the the truth of it is
as much as people think ChatGPT
or
all the other major disruptors out there have
come into the ecosystem and started giving you
sonnets about Kubernetes,
which is actually surprisingly good.
Yeah. Seriously. Well, ask him for a sonnet
about Kubernetes. Later. Okay. Yeah. No.
Anyway.
And
as much as people think that's that's entertaining
and interesting,
when you start looking at actual how our
business is done,
there isn't a very good
safe environment for this information.
So everything the ChatGPT gets, it learns off
of. It it it grabs. So if you
look at the Samsung, for instance, issue with
people giving out the
the proprietary information, and then all of a
sudden, someone else gets that proprietary information
about the Samsung thing. Hopefully,
we can figure find Yeah. The link to
that.
That
is just a microcosm of the problems when
it comes to business. Because right now, ChatGPT
is a complete and utter black box.
There is no way that the owners of
ChatGPT
or OpenAI
or Microsoft who has invested billions into it
will ever give us the data
that ChatGPT
has been built off of.
And if you start going down that train
of thought, all of a sudden, you recognize
you're giving all your proprietary info you can't
give your proprietary information. Whether it be a
PDF of how your HR system works to
the schematics of a f 15,
you can't give it to you can't use
ChatGPT with it because you don't know who's
gonna get it on the other side. This
is where Watson X comes into play.
A really great analogy for Watson X verse
the industry right now is
ChatGPT is Napster.
Watson X is iTunes.
If you think of it and you put
it in that paradigm, all of a sudden,
things start making a lot more sense on
the enterprise level.
Because now you can go to banks and
say, hey. We can give you a foundational
model that we can give you all the
data that was built off of this. Obviously,
with some money,
business y stuff happening. Right? We're not gonna
just, like, give it to you, of course,
build
the relationship, etcetera. So but we can give
you that give you the training on top
of it, and then you can put your
proprietary stuff on top of that so you
can have the chatbot that gives you that
turns out that Aetna is your insurance and
give you all the information you need about
Aetna or or whatever.
Right? Which is, believe it or not,
something that's insanely powerful.
Right? So, anyway, that that that when when
you start going down that track, you start
seeing more things in that space.
Good.
Ego, David. I mean, I get I get
asked more questions about, like, open source sitting
high, but you go next.
Yeah. I just wanna understand
make sure I understand the the proposition correctly.
Right? So you've done this this
comparison. Right? You're saying Napster versus iTunes.
People use, say, ChatGPT and OpenAI to go
and ask
any question because it's a model that is
trained on multiple billion of parameters. Right? And
all that information, like you said, is a
black box. We don't understand it. It doesn't
really allow you to,
I don't know, dig into sort of niche
subjects with high
cardinality. Often. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly.
Watson x,
I get to decide what that data is
and I get to then query it through
a similar style interface. Is that the is
that what Watson x would offer me as
a developer, like a model where I say,
here's all of my data. Have have my
life. Right? And then I can ask it
questions
and it's gonna give me answers.
But that if that's true, which is cool.
Right? It does I have this little question
where I'm like, okay.
Is there a bias where it's only gonna
confirm the stuff that I've given it in
my data?
Like, is it gonna be able to be
is it gonna be able to be slightly
more objective? Can you feed outside properties to
augment and enrich? Like, how does that all
work?
That's
that is a very great question.
And that's a natural progression. Right?
So let's go a little bit deeper than
the CIO, CTO level, and let's go down
to the senior executive and start thinking about
this. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So you like you
like that? That was a good was that
was good. So
so, yes, it's a very valid question.
What what is AI? A good friend of
mine, Carl, actually mentioned this the other day.
What is AI? It's just a yes man.
Right? When you actually look at it, what
is AI? It's it takes percentages of the
possible questions you're asking it, finds the highest
percentage of what you were looking for, and
gives you that answer. That is what AI
is in a nutshell. It's a yes man.
It's a crony. Right?
So
what we need to do is give accuracy
to the crony to get the answers you
were looking for very specifically.
Now we have something called foundational models,
which is I think there's four of them.
I don't know exactly what I'm supposed to
say publicly right now, so I'm just gonna
say there's four foundational models.
And they're all built off of
data that we have got we have agreed
upon
that are
safe to use. Now let's pivot quickly and
talk about models in the open source ecosystem.
Models in the open source ecosystem, something called
Hugging Face. If your audience doesn't know about
it, the easiest thing to describe Hugging Face
as is the GitHub of AI.
It allows places to put models up there
that you can build off of previous models.
They also give some really nice
I think the term is shims on
top of AI
development work. So you don't have to do
all the stuff around it. You can write
some very simple Python to be able to
leverage stuff from what from from Hugging Face.
Now 95
this is not hyperbole.
95%
of those open source models are built off
of something called literally
the pile.
If you Google the pile AI,
it is a massive dataset out there that
is just, like, I think, 800 gigs last
time I looked at it that people Prep.
Yeah. That is all just text and information
of on the web that people just shove
together.
So LLMs
or
linguist
language models. Language
learning models.
Larg language models. Yeah.
Largest language model. Yeah. Largest Largest
language models. None of us actually know.
None of us know what this means. Anyway.
Exactly. So
the majority the 95% of these LLMs out
there
are actually trained on the pile. And trust
me, Google it. It comes up in a
a Wikipedia article. It's this whole big dataset
problem that they have. Well, you've you've said
something right there. Right? Like, we have this
open source governed centralized knowledge of Wikipedia.
Like, why is that not the base for
these
models? So so I I I great great
great question. Before we get get on that
that that branch, let's let let me finish
what I was trying to talk about Yes,
sir. The the pile problem, which is
the pile isn't clean.
There is a lot of proprietary,
pirated
issues
inside of
of inside of
the pile
data inside of that. There are books that
are completely ripped off.
So when you start looking into copyright law,
right, and all of a sudden finding out
people have written and their books are in
the pile and the LLM is trained on
their book without permission
and they create something off of that,
that brings into some really interesting conversations about
how our copyright law works
and then how with that too
patent law works
and then with that licensing.
And all of a sudden, it it the
the the
so what I'm looking for?
The Pyramid scheme?
Oh, not only pyramid scheme, but the the
house of cards that is our industry,
all of a sudden starts starts falling apart.
Because,
frankly speaking, if we if we allow, which
right now, at this exact moment in time
when we're recording,
a federal judge in at least the US
government has said
anything
from a AI that is created cannot be
copyrighted.
Right?
That is that is this exact moment in
time. I think that was literally yesterday. Yeah.
It was. Yeah.
But, again, that's only here in The US.
Right?
And being a US centric company at IBM,
we obviously are paying very close attention to
this.
This all brings up a whole conversation of,
like,
how do we keep going down this path
without without
possibly destroying our industry?
Right? People joke about how we're barreling forward
to to the end times
leveraging leveraging AI and all that jazz. But
when you actually look at how we protect
and can use
the entities that is governments to enforce,
yes, I have not stolen your idea, and
it is my right to sell this to
people for
goods and services.
If all of a sudden AI can create
all that stuff and they create something very
close to that and they can start selling
that as their proprietary thing,
all of a sudden, businesses don't don't function.
Right? As soon as we get a real
AI that creates a the next Taylor Swift
song,
I mean,
if if we call it Taylor Swift bot,
I don't I don't know. What right? Like,
you get what I'm saying. You you see
all of a sudden the the onion gets
scarier and scarier and scarier.
So
we we have to build this wall
to make sure that the world we we
we know right now,
which is going to change because we're gonna
try to create avenues to be successful.
But if we're not,
it's scary, people. It's scary. Yeah.
So why not Wikipedia?
Ah, yes. Great question. Yeah. I'm I'm I'm
gonna bring it back to a little bit
of levity because otherwise, we're just gonna go
screaming down the black hole. But We've already
passed the VP level. We've already passed the
director. We're already, like, into the thought leadership,
like Alright. Engineering people. Right? Thought leaders.
Yeah. There you go.
I do wanna say,
well,
at least from my understanding
of how
Wikipedia works
and when if you parallelize it parallelize it,
sure, with
the pile,
the amount of errors inside of Wikipedia
and conflicting information
on top of
the ability to actually get the information out
of Wikipedia and train it usefully, there really
isn't actually as much
to get useful information. It goes back to
the my simple example of a bunch of
PDFs to look for suggested areas to find
stuff.
In my mind, that is the
easiest path for most people to grasp when
it comes to
understanding the power of AI.
Right now,
we've passed the whole if then statements of
of AI. We've passed the whole ecosystem
of
give me
avocado chairs
or whatever from Dolly.
Right now, we need to look at how
we can make our lives a little bit
better.
There are there are LLMs or not even
LLMs. I think they're considered classification. But I
point to me is that you can shove
a bunch of PDFs
into a model and then say, hey. I'm
looking for information about our
growth over the last two quarters.
And maybe that's only in a chart,
right, inside of the PDFs of of your
business logic.
There are elements that can read all those
charts and figure out, hey. Turns out growth
over the last quarter is is in this
graph and it's over the last four years.
This is the fourth spot right here. Okay.
It looks like it was 50%. It can
respond back. It looks like your growth was
over about 50% referenced in this diagram in
this PDF.
Right? So it becomes like a really, really
great librarian
if you think of it that way.
And then if you can tell that story
to an enterprise,
they have p every enterprise, right, has massive
amounts of PDFs of all their policies, procedures,
and everything like that.
If you can create a librarian,
think of whatever dystopian sci fi that has
a librarian in it, which is always always
a thing. Right?
If you can give that to an enterprise
and say, I can give you a way
to do that with your trusted data
that I know will not leave our borders
because that is core to our business.
Maybe you should look into that.
I mean, but that also assumes that the
librarian is not
making up data. I don't know if you
heard about the
the lawyer that asked for somebody to go
through all of the legal history
for some something and it turned out they
made up, like, LLM or the
the the AI made up a fake court
filing to prove something.
Yeah. And judge caught it, and it was
a big deal.
That's in The US again. But still, like,
I'm a little worried about that librarian
not quite
being correct.
But does this come down to a misunderstanding
of where people think AI is today? Like,
I think, you know, when I speak to
my wife, I speak to my family, I
speak to friends, and they're talking about chat
GPT. Right? I mean, they're all trying it.
They're all playing with it because it's getting
so much coverage.
They don't understand the generative part of it.
They think it's giving them knowledge.
They they don't know that it's just all
made up. Now we do because we are
in this industry. We follow the news. We
read these stories. But to most people, it's
a fact machine that's artificially intelligent and is
gonna give you the correct answer. So, I
mean, was the lawyer liable that they know
it was fake, that they did not verify
it? Sure. But what did they expect from
the AI? Like
And that's one reason why we have to
get AI to cite the stuff. Right? That's
not too far away to be able to,
like, where did you get this information from?
You can the the the natural progression is
citation and, you know, trust but verify.
But, again, that also requires on the model
that you've created and which model you've chosen,
which black box you've decided to do, where
the data has been trained like, where the
data is actually trained off of. Again, this
this all goes back to the other problem
that we don't talk about as an industry.
And as soon as you start playing more
in this space, recognize
that it's not the LLM or the model.
I I we I know we're intertwining change
interchanging LLM and model.
Wanna I wanna acknowledge, first of all, that
that's wrong.
Right? But most people have exposure
to LLMs.
Where so that's why it's becoming, like, the
Kleenex conversation.
Again, I want to acknowledge that that's wrong.
There is very specific terms here, but just
to get in there for the conversation, I
wanna make sure that that's that's clear. I
I know what I'm talking about, but I
I'm even making this mistake.
The core value, the core problem of this
whole narrative
is that
we're talking about the compute. We're talking about
the compiler.
We're not talking about the source code, which
is the data.
Right? And the data is what actually gives
the compiler,
which gives you the answers of the entire
of the the AI,
the information.
We need to figure out a way that
we can have trusted data
that exists in the space that we know
that won't create the court filing or has
the ability to create a court filing. Right?
And and we have that ability to have
that conversation and trust that the AI does
it. But, again, it goes back to the
pile,
right, which is a bunch of untrusted data
where, again, I'm gonna be an IBM shrill
for a second and say, we have engineers
who are dedicated to cleaning the pile.
We actually have humans that are going through
the pile, making sure that it is trusted
data to build build our foundational models off
of.
So we pull from the open source ecosystem.
So we actually do have like, that's the
other part of IBM's whole model. And we
why we have such a good relationship, you
look into it, with Hugging
specifically.
We've built partnerships directly with Hugging Face to
pull from the open source ecosystem because we,
as IBMers, know that the open source ecosystem
is gonna drive the winds of the sail,
the ship, or whatever you wanna whatever enterprise
y statement you wanna make there of the
industry.
And
we acknowledge that. So we are we are
spending a lot of time and effort in
building and building bridges to Hugging Face and
taking the open source stuff from Hugging Face
and finding a way to make it
safe for enterprises to work. We have whole
teams of people inside of our research org
at IBM
that that's all they do is they clean
data.
I don't envy them at all because that's
gotta be boring, but
we do have these people who do it.
And I have
I I was at a training relatively recently
about this, and it was it was they
they were proud because they were able to
say that this sliver of this knowledge inside
of this open source dataset,
we can now
talk to our downstream clients to say, no.
We can provide this level of confidence
with this level of information, and you put
your
level on top of it and you build
some prompt prompt engineering on top of that.
And then all of a sudden,
you're getting the answers you're looking for.
Is that sanitized
data that is now verified pushed back to
Hugging Face for other people
to use? That's that's well, because we're investing
so much money at this exact moment in
time, no.
We are we that is gonna be one
of our selling points is that we can
give you the core data.
We can give you the dataset
that we have built our model. And, of
course, the model that we're gonna be offering
to you through the Watson X platform will
be so large and so
processor intensive. We need to run it on
our cloud. I mean, what does IBM have?
It's literally business machines. Right? So we have
a lot of compute power to do this
stuff. So we can run that model that
we but we can give you the actual
dataset. And we can say with legal penalties
that this is the dataset that builds this
model
so you can actually push this out to
and put your level of information on top
of it to get the information you're looking
for.
K.
Can we I wanna make sure so I
like,
let's let's take all the things we've covered.
Right? What's next? We've got clean, trusted data.
People people can come along and say, okay.
I'm gonna use this for my organization because
I have this level of trust. Right? Now
I'd like to understand, like, a real
real use case that any developer listening to
this episode would be like, yeah. That sounds
really, really sweet. Right? And I'm
wondering, like, could we take Kubernetes events? Could
we take metric servers? Could we push this
all into Watson x? Can we derive
insights and predictability into our workloads on our
Kubernetes cluster as a as an example. Right?
Is is that something you're seeing people do?
Well,
the answer is yes
with a lot of asterisks behind.
Or I'm sorry. I'm a c yeah. I'm
sorry. I'm a senior engineer. It depends.
But the
so so as as much as the as
much as the conversation we had around Watson
X is,
the best part about of this whole narrative
is that I use this term in a
lot of conversations I have, but it is
valid in in this one. We want to
be the red solo cups of AI.
If you don't know what red solo cup
is, watch any
US
college movie. Right? The beer pong cups. Right?
Beer
pong cups. Yes.
That's that's correct. Yes. Exactly. I'm not in
The US, but that's all I know them
as. That's it. Yeah.
But Solo makes an insane amount of money
on those things because they're everywhere. Right? They're
just the way you get you you do
that stuff.
IBM wants to be that of AI. We
do not want you to interface directly
with Watson x. We don't wanna be to
be sorry. We do not want to be
b to c. We want to be b
to b.
We want to give you an API with
a trusted environment to be able to work
off of that. Now the reason why I'm
saying this is because
the developers are listening to your
your your podcast right now.
What I am offering to you is a
simple,
non crazy,
right,
REST API with Watson X that you can
trust that you can just literally use requests
from Python,
right, to do a simple post
to the back end with a certain API
key and a couple of requests of, like,
which model you wanna push it through. It's
a really simple JSON
or yeah. JSON. And then it comes back
with what you you want. So you do
all the heavy lifting inside of Watson X.
But for your application,
you can literally just leverage it a little
bit higher. Right? You just add one little
request, and it comes back with a nice
little blob of information.
So the practicality of it is,
again, it depends.
Right? But the idea is we we're trying
to build the railroad for you here so
you can get the information you're looking for
and be able to pull intelligently back.
Did that answer your question?
So
It did. Yes. Thank you. I was gonna
say, so, basically, what you're trying to do
is you're trying to say, okay. See all
these booths at KubeCon.
Imagine
a number of these companies actually running on
top of what's next underneath, but you just
don't know it yet.
You as a consumer wandering around KubeCon.
Yeah. Okay.
Okay. We're we're building phone lines, building the
railroad, whatever you wanna call it about. Okay.
Whatever major infrastructure change you're thinking of, in
essence, we're trying to do that for AI.
And You're trying to be Bell Labs is
basically what you're telling me. You're trying to
be the old school Bell Labs that's building
out the original
stuff that eventually everybody builds on top of.
Yep. And then on top of that too,
like, haven't even mentioned quantum inside of this
space. Right? There's a there's a spur that
goes into that ecosystem buzzwords.
Don't just throw buzzwords, JJ. I I have
a bunch of PhDs.
All they do every PhD physicist all day
every day. All they do is look at
this weird ass
computer that's gonna take all our lives or
something. Yeah. Exactly. That makes sense. I I
guess my my question always comes down to
there's a people problem under this to me.
Right? Under AI in general. No matter where
where it ends up, if it gets integrated
into the cloud native ecosystem or if it
stays in the, like, AI ecosystem,
I guess, for lack of a better term.
But,
you know, we can get the models to
we can get the AI to start saying,
here's the citations. We can get people to
try to verify everything, but we have that
trust but verify. But how many people sit
there and actually look at the citation?
Right? Like, that always was a thing in
science, remember, was people don't always check the
citations. You have to learn to be very
good about checking those. It doesn't come to
you naturally most of the time.
So how do we, like if I think
about, let's say, that
some company decides, okay, I'm gonna build a
monitoring tool that goes through all of my
live metrics
and analyzes
everything using AI and comes out with an
idea of, okay, this system probably is gonna
fail, has like a twenty percent chance of
failing in the next twenty four hours. Right?
And let's say that's an eventual
thing because that's an evaluation a person might
do.
But it gives you all the citations. Who's
gonna go back and look at their logs
to verify it right now? Right? If I'm
told, oh, it works.
My reaction is, okay, it works. Right? Yeah.
So how do you how do you deal
with that people problem when it comes to
this AI question of,
well, we do have to verify it somewhere.
Otherwise, we get pages that wake us up
at 3AM in the morning
and
for nothing because nothing actually went wrong because
the AI got it wrong because they analyzed
some other incident from somebody else that just
happened to have a correlation here or something.
Right? Like,
how do we get there? I don't know
if that makes any sense. But How do
we fix the chicken little problem?
Can I try and broaden that question? Because
I think they're both thinking some something very
similar. Right? And I don't know if I
trying to get there. Yeah. David, you might
be able to say this better than I
can, so go for it. I I I
don't think so. But I had that question,
and then you asked something really similar. And
I'm like, oh, if we just expect, like
so let's try it. Right?
We we've got all we've got a world
of AIs. Every developer is out there talking
to a different AI. I'm just gonna call
them singularities and AIs. Right? I I know
this deeper whatever.
Now we're all asking these questions. We're all
getting answers,
and we mentioned licensing. We mentioned copyright. Derivative
works are obviously a huge challenge when it
comes to people when we're using these answers
to then put something out into the world.
So there's this ethical dilemma
as well, which I think ties into what
Laura was asking, is that if
10 people go and ask AI how to
write a good song or a catchy song
or a number one hit and then they
all go start to use this,
that's 10 different AIs that then somehow
need to be answered the question of
backtrack.
Do we need another AI to answer the
question of was this written by an AI?
Do these AI companies need to work together
to provide a transparency log to inputs and
outputs to prove that something was an artifact
from
their
algorithm.
How do what's the future look like? The
the this is clearly a tough question or
a tough predicament. So what how does IBM
tackle that? How does what's next tackle that?
Are there conversations with other companies?
This was actually a a wonderful
working session at Fosse.
We had this whole and I I can
I can link to the Etherpad
that
captured all the notes for this?
And it was basically the open source if
if you don't know what Fosse is, it's
what OSCON used to be.
But Fosse has broken off from it's the
same group of people, but not under the
O'Reilly banner.
It's it's completely it's under the software conservancy.
They're the ones who go after the GPL
people.
Right? They they they have the GPL lawyers,
and they they are they're an interesting breed.
Let's just put it that way. Lot of
stallmen. Lot of stallmen. Anyway,
the the the interesting conversation happened was how
do you
how can you verify
and and say that this data is is
not stolen?
That was what it boiled down to, which
is, I think, kind of where you're going
there. K. And
it always went back to the it always
this this end point this end entity,
this tarball. Sure. It was called a tarball.
This make sure that this tarball,
which most likely is a binary,
isn't stolen.
It always went back to the data. It
always kept going back to if I can
prove to you that this tarball came out
of this data block
through the model that I've created and it
is this data is verifiable,
that is the only way that you can
backtrack through.
Problem is models aren't
models don't have, like, a SHA. Right? They
don't have some way to say that this
was the model that I used to do
off because the technology just doesn't exist.
Right? And as much as we want to
add all that stuff onto this stuff to
be able to say that, yes, this is
this exists,
the ecosystem is already so large
and has moved far so so so rapidly
ahead of us where you can get an
older version of ChatGPT on Hugging Face. You
didn't know. If they're they've open sourced the
those models. The models, not the data. The
models on the Hugging Face so you can
play with ChatGPT on your local laptop. They're
shit, but they do exist.
The challenge is we have no answer for
that in the space. And the way that
IBM was answering it is through
doing the pile
cleaning,
being able to show you the models, and
and with legal penalties,
say and with literally pen to paper, say,
yes. This is we can show you exactly
what's going on. But ChatGPT,
Microsoft,
I can tell you they will never do
that. Right? As as much as as much
as we want to say that when
you go into the the disruptors
I'm just using that as a term to
cover the non
the the the
I say this with love. The normies,
when they think about ChatGPT,
right, they
those are the disruptors, the ones that they're
gonna be using it to write the paper
for their history class or whatever. Right?
The the models and the data that they
that exists in that space,
the companies behind it, like OpenAI,
will never give us those datasets.
They will never do that. And then with
Microsoft investing their time and effort with, like,
a Copilot.
Right? That's the one I I I kind
of just skipped over, but I fall in
the same space as ChatGPT.
As much as they claim that they didn't
take code from GitHub,
as much as they claim
they they
you can have only Copilot only look in
your org.
We're computer professionals.
We know that's never true.
Right? And as soon as you get that
data swerved into the model, you have no
way to pull that data out.
People forget that. Like, models are added There's
no Like, there's no there's no reverting.
Once you once you've trained something, there's no
way to revert it and, like,
pull it out. Not easily. Not no. You
could destroy the model and recreate the model
with removing the data. But then again, if
that model's already out there, it just again,
it's it's a compiler. You've gotta think of
it as a compiler, and all of sudden,
a lot more things start making sense.
So Microsoft will never give us a legal
affidavit saying that, no. I did not take
any private repos from GitHub.
And, no,
I used I looked through through all of
GitHub looking for all the license files to
make sure the attribution is correct on all
of the open source projects I did. That
alone is a Herculean effort. Like, what did
you get trained off of this this code?
Did somebody just put up on GitHub and
there's no default license?
Legally speaking,
Software Conservancy couldn't represent them in court going
after Microsoft because of that. Right? And it
again, it goes back to what we were
starting at the very beginning in this conversation
with is
we have no visibility into this space because
the technology moves so quickly without checks and
balances
that we are now at a point where
okay.
Bad analogy, and it just kinda hit me
right now. Stick with me for a second.
You know I'm the queen of bad analogies,
so go for it.
In essence, we've created a bunch of of
of
of printing
presses.
Right? All of a sudden,
we created printing presses all over the world
that you can create that you don't have
to organize anymore.
They can just start printing out information for
you. And now what's stopping you from selling
those books?
Right? Because there's no validation that as long
as you got that initial printing press with
the
the the plates in it to give you
the books to to to to shove out,
that is what AI has done. It's given
the ability to send out that information very
quickly. At least when we had the Internet
when it first hit and people were worried
about pirated books and stuff like that,
the ecosystem created
blobs of ways of security and pathways to
getting these things. Right? And and and validate
the iTunes of the world, if you will.
But here,
that horse is already out of the barn
and already to the next town.
Right?
We've got a lot of catching up to
do, and the only way and problem also
is that this is global.
Right? Like, this is not just our friends
in China,
they could create LMs that do all the
that create patents for them. And
US law means nothing, right, over there. They
have their own set of laws and their
own ways of doing technology,
and they have a lot of computing power
over there. Right? So so it just like,
I'm not trying to be doom and gloom.
I'm just trying to express this to our
audience that we're talking to here saying that
as much as you think, hey. The joke
of,
hey.
ChatGPT,
give me an application,
and it gives you an application in five
minutes. It does blah.
You're you're gonna be spending twenty four hours
debugging what the hell that application does because
you can't trust it.
And there's this whole ecosystem of around that
that people don't recognize that it actually spurs
out to a lot of other stuff. Anyway,
sorry. I I got on on a roll
there. It's okay.
Alright. So the TLDR is we're all doomed.
It's all fucked. Go hug your loved ones.
Hug your thing? Turn off just turn off
the computer. Yeah.
Hugging face. Hugging hugging the face of the
face and Turn it off, and the the
next podcast will be coming to you generated
by AI.
Our our faces will be moving,
but we will not be the ones set.
And I'm just gonna
yeah. I guess I guess we're at the
end of this. I mean, like, there's a
ton more to dig into.
And
who knows? I mean, if if
there's more you wanna hear on this topic,
by the way, there is a Discord
that you can join. It's called Rawkode Academy,
and there's a channel
specifically for Cloud Data Compass. And I'm calling
it out right now because I haven't opened
in another tab.
But if you wanna ask more questions, maybe
we can do another episode on AI
someday in the future.
You can see. But yeah. Yeah. Let let
let me try a
positive side. Right? Like
Or positive. Either one.
Alright. I don't know if there's a bit
of lack there. No. I was just thinking,
like, you know, this is like, for me,
right, I'm not in the ML space. I'm
not in the AI space. This was all
new to me as chat GPT and OpenAI
came out and Google Bard and that sort
of stuff. Right?
To me, those were the only options, but
I think we're in a really fortunate position.
But there are other options. There's a lot
of movement. There's a lot of,
you know, not volatility,
but it's just there's new ideas coming all
the time and there's a lot more open
source happening too, and there's a lot more
trusted execution environments like we're hearing about with
Watson X. I think there's a lot of
positive six twenty come from AI even though
it's easy to point out the scary bits,
the negative bits. Right? But I'm I'm still
extremely hopeful based on everything that I've seen
in the past and I've heard today from
JJ
that it's gonna have a net positive impact
on my life and hopefully other people's lives.
Like, I'm I'm excited for the people working
on this.
Okay.
I'm excited. And at the same time, like,
I have I have more history in, like,
ML and things like that from Python, but
also from science. Like, just thinking through that.
Like, to me, I'll be honest, all of
this is stats all the way down and
stats that I have a hate relationship for
the rest of my life.
Yeah. I just act her in. I'm just,
like, do my homework. Stat it. Stand lies
and statistics. I mean, come on. Like, that's
exactly how it works.
I think Rawkode is a little fiesta in
that sense.
Anyway
but who knows? Maybe we'll get really lucky,
and it works out.
But, JJ, is there any last, like, thoughts,
comments,
whatever?
Because we're already longer than we normally are,
but this is a really interesting conversation.
And
maybe you have any last things, last plugs,
last whatever.
Where can we find you online? All that
fun stuff. Yeah. Well,
first of all, I'm pretty easy to find
online.
JJ Asgar most places.
If you are interested in Watson x, I
do need to plug the URL.
Ibm.biz/dev-watsonx.
The dash is the actual dash, not dash,
but the actual dash. Dev - Watson x
ibm Biz.
I do want to acknowledge that
it is hard.
You think Kubernetes is hard.
You think our cloud native ecosystem is hard,
and it is.
When you start playing in the what the
the the AI space,
be prepared to be confused.
Question
your ethics and morality,
and never ask what a developer advocate is
because I did once.
And
it told me I was, in essence, a
CIA agent killing people.
Was a little weird. What?
Okay. Yeah.
Yeah. A reason I had not created a
chat GPT account
Yeah. Or any AI. No. This was this
was just an open source LLM.
It was even better. It was just like
some generic open source LLM that basically describe
describe developer advocates going sent out by Obama
to to kill Russian
entities or something like that. It was really
weird. It was really weird.
Even more exciting lives than I realized.
On that note,
I
thanks for coming out, JJ.
I hope it was fun. Having me. I
hope you all enjoyed.
David, last thoughts. I know you're lagging all
of a sudden.
Meh.
I guess that's the answer.
AI.
Meh.
No.
It's probably good. I'll put on that note.
Thanks to y'all for listening.
Thanks for joining us. If you wanna keep
up with us, consider subscribing to the podcast
on your favorite podcasting app or even go
to cloudnativecompass.fm.
And if you want us to talk with
someone specific or cover a specific topic,
reach out to us on any social media
platform. Until next time when exploring the cloud
native landscape on 3. On 3. 1,
2,
3.
Don't forget your Don't forget your compass.